BBC Arts &amp; Culture - From fine art to fingernails: Glasgow International 2014
The sixth Glasgow International festival is in full swing, playing host to its most diverse and ambitious programme of visual art to date.
Established in 2005, the biennial event features the work of more than 70 artists from 24 countries, showcasing work in 50 locations - from the magnificent Kelvingrove and McLellan galleries to the SWG3 warehouse complex and the Govanhill swimming baths.
In addition to the array of paintings, sculptures, installations and video work on display across the city, BBC Arts is collaborating with Glasgow International on a series of exclusive free performances at BBC Scotland's Pacific Quay HQ, by Mark Beasley, Sue Tompkins and Fiona Jardine.
And while international talent is a key part of the festival's appeal, home-grown art is equally important, as director Sarah McCrory explains: "[The festival] is important in that we do bring in these international practises, but it's also important to represent artists from Scotland.
"It's a great platform for those artists but also we're really lucky to have them be part of the festival, because without them it becomes another identikit biennale project that you can travel around the world to see.
It's really important that Glasgow International feels like it was made for Scotland."
A preview of Glasgow International 2014 One such local talent is Glasgow-based visual and performance artist Sue Tompkins, who creates a variety of physical works - from typed pages to large paintings - as well as spoken-word performance pieces, all based around re-arranging found phrases, words and lyrics.
Both sides of her output are represented at GI 2014, with a new suite of fabric pieces, paintings and typed pages on display at the Gallery of Modern Art, and a new performance piece, Orange Brainwash Tribute, to be presented at Pacific Quay on Monday, 14 April.
Her work may straddle the worlds of visual and sound art, but Tompkins says: "Even though some text is made into paintings and some text goes into performance, it feels like the writing itself is the core of it all.
So it doesn't actually feel that diverse to me."
A profile of Glasgow based visual and performance artist Sue Tompkins One of the festival's more unusual offerings comes from Londoner Alistair Frost, who has created a pop-up nail bar in a disused shopfront in Glasgow's Saltmarket, where visitors can have miniature versions of his artwork applied directly to their fingertips.
He explains: "I started off making these shows that were to do with bars, and the idea of the 'art opening'.
That has evolved through shows that were about leisure and spa activity - I did a show with a sauna.
"This idea of where art butts up against leisure - the nail bar seemed like a segue from that, but also seemed like something I could get my teeth into in terms of how the motif is distributed."
Artist Alistair Frost embarks on an ambitious project for Glasgow International 2014 Sue Tompkins' Orange Brainwash Tribute is hosted by BBC Arts at BBC Scotland, Pacific Quay, Glasgow on Monday, 14 April from 6.30-8.00pm.
The event is free but ticketed.
Tickets are available here.
Fiona Jardine's Spark for Artists: Memento Mori is hosted by BBC Arts at BBC Scotland, Pacific Quay, Glasgow on Wednesday 16 April from 3.00-5.00pm.
The event is free but ticketed.
Tickets are available here.
The festival runs until 21 April - visit the Glasgow International website for full details.
BBC News - Removed Banksy taken from boys' club to Bristol Museum
The Banksy picture at the centre of a row over ownership has been moved from a youth club by police and taken to Bristol City Museum and Art Gallery.
The piece, showing a couple embracing while checking their mobile phones, was taken from a council-owned wall by the club's leader, Dennis Stinchcombe, shortly after it appeared.
